.TH "yuvcut" 1 "25 January 2006" "Johannes Lehtinen" "JL yuvutils"
.SH NAME
yuvcut \- cuts a slice of a YUV4MPEG stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B yuvcut
.RB [ -h ]
.RB [ -c \ [ START ] - [[ + ] END ][ , [ + ] START- [[ + ] END ]]...]
.RB [ -v ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads a YUV4MPEG stream from the standard input and outputs the selected ranges of frames to the standard output.
A range can be specified using frame indexes (starting at 0) or using time code format [H:]MIN:SEC[.F] (optional hours, minutes, seconds and optional frame index).
If start/end location starts with '+' it is interpreted relative to the previously specified location.
If the start/end location is omitted then start/end of stream is assumed.
The ranges must not be overlapping and they must be specified in order.
.SH EXAMPLES
.B Cut the first 100 frames (frames 0-99) of the input stream:
.br
yuvcut -c -99 < input.y4m > output.y4m

.B Cut the frames belonging to the second minute of the input stream:
.br
yuvcut -c 1:00-2:00 < input.y4m > output.y4m
.br
yuvcut -c 1:00-+1:00 < input.y4m > output.y4m

.B Cut 5 frames starting at 1:15:13:
.br
yuvcut -c 1:15:13-1:15:13.4 < input.y4m > output.y4m
.br
yuvcut -c 1:15:13-+4 < input.y4m > output.y4m

.B Cut two ranges:
.br
yuvcut -c 10-23,40-76 < input.y4m > output.y4m
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Print brief usage information and exit immediately.
.TP
.BR \-c \ [ START ] - [[ + ] END ][ , [ + ] START- [[ + ] END ]]...
The ranges of frames to be copied.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose operation (twice for debug).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mjpegtools (1),
.BR yuv4mpeg (5)
.SH AUTHOR
.B yuvcut
was implemented by Johannes Lehtinen.
It uses the \fBmjpegutils\fP library provided by the
.BR mjpegtools (1)
package for reading and writing YUV4MPEG streams.
