.TH "yuvadjust" 1 "29 December 2005" "Johannes Lehtinen" "JL yuvutils"
.SH NAME
yuvadjust \- adjust luminance and white balance of a YUV4MPEG stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B yuvadjust
.RB [ -l ]
.RB [ -w | -W ]
.RB [ -h ]
.RB [ -b
.IR frames ]
.RB [ -H ]
.RB [ -c ]
.RB [ -v ]
.RB [ -d ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Automatically adjust luminance level, contrast and white balance of
a YUV4MPEG stream.
The input stream is read from the standard input and the
adjusted stream is written to the standard output.
The stream is adjusted according to the gray world assumption.

This tool can be used to quickly enhance video which is too dark or which is
blueish or reddish.
A typical example would be a video recorded in a dimly
lighted room.
However, because the gray world assumption is not valid
for all content, the result might also be worse, especially when applied to
high quality input.
It is a good idea to experiment and to compare the result
to the original (see also the -H option).
.SH EXAMPLES
.B Enhance poor quality video:
.br
lav2yuv input.avi | yuvadjust -l -W | yuv2lav -o output.avi

.B Adjust luminance level and contrast of too dark video:
.br
lav2yuv input.avi | yuvadjust -l | yuv2lav -o output.avi

.B Adjust white balance of a blueish or reddish video:
.br
lav2yuv input.avi | yuvadjust -w | yuv2lav -o output.avi
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-l
Adjust luminance level and contrast.
The luminance values of a frame are adjusted by calculating the average
luminance of the surrounding frames and then applying a quadratic transformation
which preserves nominal black and white values while mapping the current
average luminance value to 50% gray.
Notice that the resulting average luminance is not necessarily 50% gray.
.TP
.B \-w
Adjust white balance.
The Cb/Cr values of a frame are adjusted independently by calculating the
average Cb/Cr values of the surrounding frames and then shifting the Cb/Cr
values by constant amount so that the resulting stream is gray on average.
Conflicts with -W.
.TP
.B \-W
Adjust white balance and color contrast.
The Cb/Cr values of a frame are adjusted independently by calculating the
average Cb/Cr values of the surrounding frames and then applying a quadratic
transformation which preserves nominal minimum and maximum values while mapping
the current average color to gray.
Notice that the resulting average color is not necessarily gray.
Conflicts with -w.
.TP
.B \-h
Print brief usage information and exit immediately.
.TP
.B \-b \fIframes\fP
Use information from up to \fIframes\fP buffered surrounding frames to
adjust a frame.
Default is 30 frames.
.TP
.B \-H
Adjust only the top half of each frame.
This makes it easy to compare the resulting video to the original.
More detailed analysis can be done using \fByuvinfo\fP(1) with the -H option
to display YUV histograms of the original and resulting streams.
.TP
.B \-c
Clip output YUV values to their nominal range (16 to 235 for Y, 16 to 240 for
U and V).
This does not affect the way adjustments are done, clipping is performed as a
post-processing step.
Default is to use the full 8-bit range.
.TP
.B \-v
Be more verbose (writes extra information to standard error).
.TP
.B \-d
Enables debug output (writes debug information to standard error).
Use this option to see the exact adjustments done for each frame.
Implies -v.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mjpegtools (1),
.BR yuv4mpeg (5)
.SH BUGS
.B yuvadjust
depends fully on the gray world assumption and there is no logic which
would prevent it from overshooting corrections. This is sometimes desirable
when processing really poor quality video material but it causes surprises when
applying this tool to higher quality material.
.SH AUTHOR
.B yuvadjust
was implemented by Johannes Lehtinen.
For input and output it uses the \fBmjpegutils\fP
library provided by the
.BR mjpegtools (1) 
package.
