.TH "yuvinfo" 1 "29 December 2005" "Johannes Lehtinen" "JL yuvutils"
.SH NAME
yuvinfo \- describe a YUV4MPEG stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B yuvinfo
.RB [ -h ]
.RB [ -l ]
.RB [ -c ]
.RB [ -H ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Describes a YUV4MPEG stream read from the standard input using an output
format similar to \fBlavinfo\fP.
Optionally copies the input to the standard output
and can also overlay YUV histograms in the output video stream.
.SH EXAMPLES
.B These two commands should produce similar output:
.br
lavinfo input.avi
.br
lav2yuv input.avi | yuvinfo

.B Store information about raw video stream before encoding:
.br
lav2yuv input.avi \\
.br
| yuvresample \-f 25:1 \\
.br
| yuvinfo \-c 2> info.txt \\
.br
| mpeg2enc \-f 8 \-o output.mpeg2

.B Visually inspect the YUV histograms:
.br
lav2yuv video.avi | yuvinfo \-H | yuvplay
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Print brief usage information and exit immediately.
.TP
.B \-l
Output only the length of the stream as number of frames.
This can be used in scripts to easily obtain the length of a stream.
.TP
.B \-c
Copy the input to the standard output and write information to the
standard error.
This option makes it easy to record information about video stream as it is
been processed or encoded.
.TP
.B \-H
Overlay YUV histograms in the output video stream. Implies -c.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mjpegtools (1),
.BR yuv4mpeg (5)
.SH AUTHOR
.B yuvinfo
was implemented by Johannes Lehtinen.
However, it is only a thin wrapper around the \fBmjpegutils\fP
library provided by the
.BR mjpegtools (1)
package.
