.TH "yuvresample" 1 "29 December 2005" "Johannes Lehtinen" "JL yuvutils"
.SH NAME
yuvresample \- a resampler for YUV4MPEG streams
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B yuvresample
.RB [ -f
.IR rate ]
.RB [ -F
.IR rate ]
.RB [ -i
.IR interlacing ]
.RB [ -I
.IR interlacing ]
.RB [ -m
.IR mode ]
.RB [ -v ]
.RB [ -d ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Resamples a YUV4MPEG stream to change the frame rate, optionally changing the
interlacing mode as well.
The source stream is read from the standard input and the result is written
to the standard output.

Each output frame/field is produced as the weighted average of the two
temporally closest input frames/fields.
Optionally, the closest input frame/field can be used as the single source.
Blending of the two closest frames/fields does not cause as visible stepping
as simply dropping or duplicating frames does but it blurs moving objects.
Try both approaches to see which you prefer.
.SH EXAMPLES
.B Convert video to PAL frame rate:
.br
lav2yuv input.avi | yuvresample -f 25:1 | yuv2lav -o output.avi

.B Convert interlaced video to progressive video and PAL frame rate:
.br
lav2yuv input.avi | yuvresample -f 25:1 -i p | yuv2lav -o output.avi

.B Create slow motion 1/5 speed video (assuming PAL frame rate for input):
.br
lav2yuv input.avi | yuvresample -F 5:1 -f 25:1 | yuv2lav -o output.avi

.B Speed up video 2 times (assuming PAL frame rate for input):
.br
lav2yuv input.avi | yuvresample -F 50:1 -f 25:1 | yuv2lav -o output.avi

.B Convert progressive scan video to interlaced video:
.br
lav2yuv input.avi | yuvresample -i b | yuv2lav -o output.avi
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Print brief usage information and exit immediately.

.TP
.B \-f \fIrate\fP
Specify the output frame rate as a ratio.
For example, 25:1 for PAL or
30000:1001 for NTCS.
Defaults to the input frame rate.

.TP
.B \-F \fIrate\fP
Override the input frame rate by the specified frame rate ratio.
This can be used if you wish to speed up or slow down the original video
or if the frame rate information for the input is incorrect.
If you wish to just change the frame rate information of the stream
then see
.BR yuvfps (1)
option -c.

.TP
.B \-i \fIinterlacing\fP
Specify the output interlacing mode.
Defaults to the input interlacing mode.
The possible values are:
.IP
.B p
\- progressive scan (non-interlaced)
.br
.B t
\- top-field first
.br
.B b
\- bottom-field first

.TP
.B \-I \fIinterlacing\fP
Override the input interlacing mode by the specified mode.
This can be used if the interlacing information for the input is incorrect.
The possible values are same as for -i.

.TP
.B \-m \fImode\fP
Specify the resampling mode to be used when producing an output frame/field.
The possible values are:
.IP
.B c
\- use only the closest input frame/field
.br
.B a
\- use the weighted average of two input frames/fields

.TP
.B \-v
Be more verbose.

.TP
.B \-d
Enables debug output.
Implies -v.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mjpegtools (1),
.BR yuvfps (1)
.SH BUGS
.B yuvresample
does not try to account for motion. Motion compensation would reduce blurring
of moving objects caused by simply blending the two closest frames/fields.
.SH AUTHOR
.B yuvresample
was implemented by Johannes Lehtinen.
For input and output it uses the \fBmjpegutils\fP
library provided by the
.BR mjpegtools (1) 
package.
